sudo apt install net-tool; sudo apt install vim; sudo apt install 

vimrc
set ts=4 sw=4


active directory
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt samba
sudo apt-get install krb5-user


sudo yum install samba samba-client samba-common krb5-workstation



python3.10 - SSL
sudo apt-get install build-essential libssl-dev zlib1g-dev libbz2-dev libreadline-dev libsqlite3-dev wget curl llvm libncurses5-dev xz-utils tk-dev libxml2-dev libxmlsec1-dev libffi-dev liblzma-dev
wget https://www.python.org/ftp/python/3.10.0/Python-3.10.0.tgz



Stack Overflow - This is a popular Q&A platform where developers can ask and answer technical questions related to Linux and other programming languages.

LinuxQuestions.org - This is a community-driven forum where users can ask questions related to Linux and get answers from other experienced users.

Linux.com - This is a news and information site dedicated to Linux and open source software. It offers a range of tutorials, articles, and resources related to Linux.

Ubuntu forums - If you use Ubuntu, then the Ubuntu forums are an excellent resource for finding Linux fixes and solutions. The forum is divided into categories such as installation, networking, and software.

Arch Linux Wiki - This is a community-driven wiki that offers extensive documentation and guides for Arch Linux users.

Fedora Magazine - This is a publication dedicated to Fedora Linux, which offers a range of tutorials and articles related to Linux and open source software.

LinuxHint - This website offers a range of tutorials and guides for Linux users, covering topics such as system administration, networking, and programming.

Linux Academy - This is a training platform that offers courses on Linux, cloud computing, and other related topics.

GitHub - This is a popular code-sharing platform where developers can find and share code related to Linux and other programming languages. It also offers a range of tools and resources for developers.




Stack Overflow - This is a popular Q&A platform where developers can ask and answer technical questions related to Linux and other programming languages. It's a great resource for finding solutions to common Linux issues.

LinuxQuestions.org - This is a community-driven forum where users can ask questions related to Linux and get answers from other experienced users. It's a great place to ask for help with Linux troubleshooting.

Unix & Linux Stack Exchange - This is another Q&A platform dedicated to Unix and Linux operating systems. It offers a range of questions and answers related to Linux troubleshooting and system administration.

Linux.com - This is a news and information site dedicated to Linux and open source software. It offers a range of tutorials, articles, and resources related to Linux troubleshooting and system administration.

Arch Linux Wiki - This is a community-driven wiki that offers extensive documentation and guides for Arch Linux users. It's a great resource for finding solutions to common Linux issues.

CentOS Wiki - This is a wiki dedicated to CentOS, a popular Linux distribution. It offers a range of documentation and guides related to CentOS troubleshooting and system administration.

Ubuntu Forums - If you use Ubuntu, then the Ubuntu forums are an excellent resource for finding Linux troubleshooting tips and solutions. The forum is divided into categories such as installation, networking, and software.

LinuxHint - This website offers a range of tutorials and guides for Linux users, covering topics such as system administration, networking, and programming. It's a great resource for finding Linux troubleshooting tips and solutions.




To set up a VNC server on Ubuntu 20.04, follow these steps:

Install the necessary packages:
sql
Copy code
sudo apt update
sudo apt install -y ubuntu-desktop gnome-panel gnome-settings-daemon metacity nautilus gnome-terminal
sudo apt install -y tightvncserver
Start the VNC server:
Copy code
tightvncserver
You will be prompted to enter a password for VNC access. Choose a strong password and confirm it.

Stop the VNC server:
bash
Copy code
tightvncserver -kill :1
Edit the VNC startup file:
javascript
Copy code
nano ~/.vnc/xstartup
Replace the contents of the file with the following:

bash
Copy code
#!/bin/bash
xrdb $HOME/.Xresources
startxfce4 &
Save and exit the file.

Make the VNC startup file executable:
javascript
Copy code
chmod +x ~/.vnc/xstartup
Restart the VNC server:
Copy code
tightvncserver
Connect to the VNC server from a remote machine using a VNC viewer application. Enter the IP address of the Ubuntu machine and the VNC port number (default is 5901) in the viewer application.

Enter the VNC access password when prompted, and you should be able to access the Ubuntu desktop remotely.

Note: The above instructions assume that you are using the XFCE desktop environment. If you are using a different desktop environment, replace "startxfce4" with the appropriate command for your desktop environment.




Setting up VNC (Virtual Network Computing) on CentOS 7 involves the following steps:

Install GNOME Desktop Environment:
VNC server requires a graphical desktop environment to be installed on the server. If it's not already installed, you can install it by running the following command:

python
Copy code
sudo yum groupinstall "GNOME Desktop"
Install VNC server:
You can install the VNC server package, TigerVNC, using the following command:

Copy code
sudo yum install tigervnc-server
Configure VNC server:
Create a new VNC configuration file by copying the default template file using the following command:

bash
Copy code
sudo cp /lib/systemd/system/vncserver@.service /etc/systemd/system/vncserver@:1.service
Next, edit the configuration file by running the following command:

bash
Copy code
sudo nano /etc/systemd/system/vncserver@:1.service
Replace User=username with the username you want to use for VNC.

Add the following lines at the end of the file:

csharp
Copy code
[Install]
WantedBy=multi-user.target
Save the changes and close the file.

Set up VNC password:
Set up a VNC password by running the following command:

Copy code
vncpasswd
Enter and confirm the VNC password when prompted.

Start VNC server:
Start the VNC server using the following command:

kotlin
Copy code
sudo systemctl start vncserver@:1.service
Enable VNC server:
Enable the VNC server to start at boot time by running the following command:

bash
Copy code
sudo systemctl enable vncserver@:1.service
Configure Firewall:
If you have firewall enabled on your server, you need to allow VNC traffic through the firewall. Run the following command to open the VNC port:

css
Copy code
sudo firewall-cmd --permanent --add-service vnc-server
sudo firewall-cmd --reload
That's it! You can now connect to your CentOS 7 server using a VNC client by specifying the server IP address and the VNC port (e.g., 192.168.0.100:1).
